Add terraform import resource (#12383)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform-use-import-resource.md

---
title: Use Import Resource
summary: Learn how to manage the import task using the import resource.
---

# Use Import Resource

> Import resource supports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn how to import data to a TiDB Cloud cluster with the `tidbcloud_import` resource in this document.

The features of the `tidbcloud_import` resource include the following:
```

Reviewer: change reason: This is to use a similar introductory sentence as other Terraform integration docs.

> - Create import tasks in serverless tier and dedicated tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create import tasks for Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier clusters.
```

> - LOCAL and S3 import type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support importing data from local disks or from Amazon S3 buckets.
```

> - Cancel import tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support canceling ongoing import tasks.
```

You can learn how to manage an import task with the `tidbcloud_import` resource in this document.

## Prerequisites

- [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform-get-tidbcloud-provider.md).
- [Create a Serverless Tier or Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

## Manage the import resource

> You can manage either a local import task or an Amazon S3 import task using the import resource. The following sections take a local import task as an example to show you how to manage the import resource.

Author: Not supported yet. it depends on the ability of API which only support s3 and local now
<img width="658" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52435083/220238650-89db9095-ad9a-4e09-8f71-624978a5c210.png">

           },
       ]
       cluster_id                    = "1379661944641274168"
       completed_percent             = 100
       completed_tables              = 1
       created_at                    = "2023-02-06T05:39:46.000Z"
       csv_format                    = {
           separator = ";"
       }
       data_format                   = "CSV"
       elapsed_time_seconds          = 49
       file_name                     = "./t.csv"
       id                            = "781074"
       new_file_name                 = "2023-02-06T05:39:42Z-t.csv"
       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "COMPLETED"
       target_table                  = {
           database = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

   When the status turns to `COMPLETED`, it indicates that the import task is finished.

> 6. Check the import data with MySQL CLI:

Reviewer: Do we need to mention "MySQL CLI" or MySQL clients in the prerequisites?

Author: I think we needn't. It is not a necessary step for import, just check the results for import

> 6. Check the import data with MySQL CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Check the imported data with MySQL CLI:
```

   ```
   mysql> select * from test.import_test;
   +------+-------+------+
   | id   | name  | age  |
   +------+-------+------+
   |    1 | Alice |   20 |
   |    2 | Bob   |   30 |
   +------+-------+------+
   2 rows in set (0.24 sec)
   ```

### Update an import task

Import tasks cannot be updated.

### Delete an import task

For Terraform, deleting an import task means canceling the corresponding import resource. 

you cannot cancel a `COMPLETED` import task. For example, if you cancel an import task that is completed, you will see get the `Delete Error` as follows:

```
$ terraform destroy
...
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.

  Enter a value: yes

tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destroying... [id=781074]
╷
│ Error: Delete Error
│ 
│ Unable to call CancelImport, got error: [DELETE /api/internal/projects/{project_id}/clusters/{cluster_id}/imports/{id}][500] CancelImport default  &{Code:59900104 Details:[] Message:failed to cancel
│ import}
╵
```

> Cancel an import task whose status is `IMPORTING`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can cancel an import task whose status is `IMPORTING`. For example:
```

```
$ terraform destroy
...
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.

  Enter a value: yes
  
tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destroying... [id=781074]
tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destruction complete after 0s

Destroy complete! Resources: 1 destroyed.  
```

## Configurations

> See [configuration documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs/resources/import) to get all the available configurations for the import resource.

Reviewer: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs/resources/import returns 404 Not Found.

Author: successfully access for me. Maybe the problem of network?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52435083/220239475-9514d01d-9f23-43a3-b0a1-5c2fd1c5070a.png)

Reviewer: yes, I think so.

---
title: Use Import Resource
summary: Learn how to manage the import task using the import resource.
---

# Import Resource

Import resource supports:

- Create import tasks in serverless tier and dedicated tier.
- LOCAL and S3 import type.
- Cancel import tasks.

You can learn how to manage an import task with the `tidbcloud_import` resource in this document.

> ## Before you start

Author: Done

- Learn how to [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform-get-tidbcloud-provider.md) first.

> - A serverless tier or dedicated tier is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A serverless tier or dedicated tier cluster is required.
```

## Manage the import resource

> Here is an example on how to manage a LOCAL import task with import resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manage either a local import task or an Amazon S3 import task using the import resource. The following sections take a local import task as an example to show you how to manage the import resource.
```

> ### Create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create and run an import task
```

1. Create a csv file for import. For example:

   ```
   id;name;age
   1;Alice;20
   2;Bob;30
   ```

2. Create an `import` directory then create a `main.tf` inside it. For example:

    ```
    terraform {
     required_providers {
       tidbcloud = {
         source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
         version = "~> 0.2.0"
       }
     }
   }

>    provider "tidbcloud" {

Reviewer 2: weird indent

      public_key = "fake_public_key"
      private_key = "fake_private_key"
    }
   
    resource "tidbcloud_import" "example_local" {
      project_id  = "your_project_id"
      cluster_id  = "your_cluster_id"
      type        = "LOCAL"
      data_format = "CSV"
      csv_format = {
        separator = ";"
      }
      target_table = {
        database = "test"
        table  = "import_test"
      }
      file_name = "your_csv_path"
    }
    ```

>    Replace resource values (such as project ID and cluster ID) in the file with your own. And you can find the details of `csv_format` in [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).

Reviewer: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/csv-config-for-import-data 这个文档里都是 UI 上的配置项名称，对应到这里的 .tf 配置文件，是否可以给一个配置项名称列表呢，类似 https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-local#inherited-flags 这里的

Author: Done

> 3. Run the `terraform apply` command and type `yes` to confirm the creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the `terraform apply` command to create the import task, and then type `yes` to confirm the creation and start the import:
```

               result     = "SUCCESS"
               table_name = "`test`.`import_test`"
           },
       ]
       cluster_id                    = "1379661944641274168"
       completed_percent             = 100
       completed_tables              = 1
       created_at                    = "2023-02-06T05:39:46.000Z"
       csv_format                    = {
           separator = ";"
       }
       data_format                   = "CSV"
       elapsed_time_seconds          = 48
       file_name                     = "./t.csv"
       id                            = "781074"
       new_file_name                 = "2023-02-06T05:39:42Z-t.csv"
       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "IMPORTING"
       target_table                  = {
           schema = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

> 5. Use `terraform refersh` to update the status after several minutes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Use `terraform refresh` to update the status after several minutes
```

       }
       data_format                   = "CSV"
       elapsed_time_seconds          = 49
       file_name                     = "./t.csv"
       id                            = "781074"
       new_file_name                 = "2023-02-06T05:39:42Z-t.csv"
       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "COMPLETED"
       target_table                  = {
           database = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

   When the status turns to `COMPLETED`, it indicates that the import task has finished.

6. Check the import results with MySQL CLI

   ```
   mysql> select * from test.import_test;
   +------+-------+------+
   | id   | name  | age  |
   +------+-------+------+
   |    1 | Alice |   20 |
   |    2 | Bob   |   30 |
   +------+-------+------+
   2 rows in set (0.24 sec)
   ```

> ### Update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update an import task
```

Import tasks cannot be updated.

> ### Delete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete an import task
```

> Delete is actually cancel in import resource, and you can not cancel a `COMPLETED` import task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Terraform, deleting an import task means canceling the corresponding import resource. 
```

> Cancel an import task which has completed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you cannot cancel a `COMPLETED` import task. For example, if you cancel an import task that is completed, you will see get the `Delete Error` as follows:
```

```
$ terraform destroy
...
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.

  Enter a value: yes

tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destroying... [id=781074]
╷
│ Error: Delete Error
│ 
│ Unable to call CancelImport, got error: [DELETE /api/internal/projects/{project_id}/clusters/{cluster_id}/imports/{id}][500] CancelImport default  &{Code:59900104 Details:[] Message:failed to cancel
│ import}
╵
```

> Cancel an import task which status is `IMPORTING`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cancel an import task whose status is `IMPORTING`:
```

```
$ terraform destroy
...
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.

  Enter a value: yes
  
tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destroying... [id=781074]
tidbcloud_import.example_local: Destruction complete after 0s

Destroy complete! Resources: 1 destroyed.  
```

## Configurations

> See [configuration documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs/resources/import) to get all the available configurations for import resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [configuration documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs/resources/import) to get all the available configurations for the import resource.
```

       }
       data_format                   = "CSV"
       elapsed_time_seconds          = 49
       file_name                     = "./t.csv"
       id                            = "781074"
       new_file_name                 = "2023-02-06T05:39:42Z-t.csv"
       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "COMPLETED"
       target_table                  = {
           database = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

   When the status turns to `COMPLETED`, it indicates that the import task is finished.

6. Check the imported data with MySQL CLI:

   ```
   mysql> select * from test.import_test;
   +------+-------+------+
   | id   | name  | age  |
   +------+-------+------+
   |    1 | Alice |   20 |
   |    2 | Bob   |   30 |
   +------+-------+------+
   2 rows in set (0.24 sec)
   ```

> ### Create and run a S3 import task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create and run an AmazonS3 import task
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> To allow TiDB Cloud to access your files in the Amazon S3 bucket, you need to [configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access) first.

```
```

   }
   
   resource "tidbcloud_import" "example_s3_csv" {
     project_id   = "your_project_id"
     cluster_id   = "your_cluster_id"
     type         = "S3"
     data_format  = "CSV"
     aws_role_arn = "your_arn"
     source_url   = "your_url"
   }
   
   resource "tidbcloud_import" "example_s3_parquet" {
     project_id   = "your_project_id"
     cluster_id   = "your_cluster_id"
     type         = "S3"
     data_format  = "Parquet"
     aws_role_arn = "your_arn"
     source_url   = "your_url"
   }
   ```
   
2. Run the `terraform apply` command to create an import task, and then type `yes` to confirm the creation and start the import:

   ```
   $ terraform apply
   ...
   Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
   
   Do you want to perform these actions?
   Terraform will perform the actions described above.
   Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
   
   Enter a value: yes
   
   tidbcloud_import.example_s3_csv: Creating...
   tidbcloud_import.example_s3_csv: Creation complete after 3s [id=781075]
   tidbcloud_import.example_s3_parquet: Creating...
   tidbcloud_import.example_s3_parquet: Creation complete after 4s [id=781076]
   ```
   

> 3. Use `terraform refresh` and `terraform state show tidbcloud_import.${resource-name}` to update and check the status just as described in the last section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use `terraform refresh` and `terraform state show tidbcloud_import.${resource-name}` to update and check the status of the import task.
```

---
title: Use Import Resource
summary: Learn how to manage the import task using the import resource.
---

# Use Import Resource

You can learn how to import data to a TiDB Cloud cluster with the `tidbcloud_import` resource in this document.

The features of the `tidbcloud_import` resource include the following:

- Create import tasks for Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier clusters.
- Import data either from local disks or from Amazon S3 buckets.
- Cancel ongoing import tasks.

## Prerequisites

- [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform-get-tidbcloud-provider.md).
- [Create a Serverless Tier or Dedicated Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

You can manage either a local import task or an Amazon S3 import task using the import resource.

## Create and run a local import task

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To create and run a local import task for a Serverless Tier cluster, take the following steps:

```

1. Create a CSV file for import. For example:

   ```
   id;name;age
   1;Alice;20
   2;Bob;30
   ```

2. Create an `import` directory, and then create a `main.tf` inside it. For example:

    ```
    terraform {
     required_providers {
       tidbcloud = {
         source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
       }
     }
   }

    provider "tidbcloud" {

>       public_key = "fake_public_key"
>       private_key = "fake_private_key"

Reviewer 3: "fake" may be misleading.
```suggestion
      public_key = "your_public_key"
      private_key = "your_private_key"
```

       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "COMPLETED"
       target_table                  = {
           database = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

   When the status turns to `COMPLETED`, it indicates that the import task is finished.

6. Check the imported data with MySQL CLI:

   ```
   mysql> select * from test.import_test;
   +------+-------+------+
   | id   | name  | age  |
   +------+-------+------+
   |    1 | Alice |   20 |
   |    2 | Bob   |   30 |
   +------+-------+------+
   2 rows in set (0.24 sec)
   ```

### Create and run an Amazon S3 import task

> **Note:**
>
> To allow TiDB Cloud to access your files in the Amazon S3 bucket, you need to [configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access) first.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

       }
       data_format                   = "CSV"
       elapsed_time_seconds          = 49
       file_name                     = "./t.csv"
       id                            = "781074"
       new_file_name                 = "2023-02-06T05:39:42Z-t.csv"
       pending_tables                = 0
       post_import_completed_percent = 100
       processed_source_data_size    = "31"
       project_id                    = "1372813089191151295"
       status                        = "COMPLETED"
       target_table                  = {
           database = "test"
           table  = "import_test"
       }
       total_files                   = 0
       total_size                    = "31"
       total_tables_count            = 1
       type                          = "LOCAL"
   }
   ```

   When the status turns to `COMPLETED`, it indicates that the import task is finished.

6. Check the imported data with MySQL CLI:

   ```
   mysql> select * from test.import_test;
   +------+-------+------+
   | id   | name  | age  |
   +------+-------+------+
   |    1 | Alice |   20 |
   |    2 | Bob   |   30 |
   +------+-------+------+
   2 rows in set (0.24 sec)
   ```

> ### Create and run an AmazonS3 import task
> ```suggestion
> 
> > **Note:**
> >
> > To allow TiDB Cloud to access your files in the Amazon S3 bucket, you need to [configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access) first.
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create and run an Amazon S3 import task

> **Note:**
>
> To allow TiDB Cloud to access your files in the Amazon S3 bucket, you need to [configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access) first.

```
